---
title: "Superstore Dataset - Data Visualization | Tableau"
date: 2021-03-29
tags: [tableau, data visualization, business report]
header:
  image: "/images/The-walking-dead.jpg"
excerpt: "Investigated product sales with 9995 data entries and provided a business report to indicate specific targeting period, location and targeted customer of well performing products aimming to create efficient and effective marketing campaigns."
mathjax: "true"
---

**Introduction**

Superstore project was the project from Data Visualization course from my Master degree of Business Analytics at Hult International Business School. The Superstore project was conducted to investigate product sales with a database of 9995 data entries and to design interactive dashboards and a report for the marketing team. This project has conducted with the hypothesis considering the essential factors and information that the marketting team might need for digital marketing and Online Ad campaigns. This report also aimed to provide a top five well performing products report to indicate specific targeting period, location and targeted customer and to make marketting campaign be more efficient and effective. Therefore this analysis had set the key metrics to evaluate the performance of the well-performance products by evaluating their sales and profits. The structure of this report consisted with analyzing top performning products, period of high demand, targeting region analysis, and customer segment that are worthy for launching marketing campaigns. In conclusion, this report investigated which, when, where, and who for the marketing campaign of each product.

*The interactive dashboard created to support this analysis can be seen via this link:*
[interactive dashboards](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/romchalee.aunsakulsaeree/viz/Superstore_analysis_/SuperstoreAnalysis)

**Dashboard 1**

**Sales Overview**

During the 12 months in 2019, the products that had high sales are phones, chairs, binders, storage, copier, and table respectively. However, the product that generated the most profit was the copier which ranked in 5th place. The products generated in second and third place for profit are the accessory and phone. Whereas chair, blinder, and storage generated similarly profit. Table generated the lowest profit comparing the top six best-selling products and the overall products. Therefore, we can conclude that table is not worthwhile taking into marketing effort. In summary, the products that generated high sales with profits are worthwhile for advertising and those products are including phones, chairs, blinders, storages, and copiers. 

**Marketing Period**

In this part of the analysis, we will investigate which month will be an appropriate marketing period that Superstore should launch the marketing campaign. The period result of each top high-sales performance product will be based on the sales performance over 12 months in 2019.

- **Phones:** November and September were the months that have top sales comparing to the rest of the months, these two months will be an appropriate period to advertising the phone marketing campaign. 

- **Chairs:** The high sales period for the chair occurred in September, November, and December. The profits generated by the chair during September and December were high, the profits of these two months were about 50% more than November’s profit. Therefore, September and December will be appropriated periods to launch a marketing campaign.

- **Blinders:**  The blinder product had a high sales period from August to October, however, the month that generated the highest sales was in August following by September with a slightly different profit value. Thus, these two months were good period for launching an advertising campaign.

- **Storages:** The storage product had a high sales period from November to December, thus these two months were a good period for launching an advertising campaign.

- **Copiers:** Comparing to the rest of the part-year, March and November were top two high sales month and were able to generate profit. With the highest sales and profit therefore, March was a good period for launching an advertising campaign.

**Dashboard 2**

**Targeting region and city**

This part of the analysis will be analyzing the location for promoting the marketing campaign. The city being selected will be chosen by the high sales performance.

- **Phones:** Comparing phone sales across the regions of the USA, the east region generated the highest sales and New York City was the city that Superstore should target for advertising to boost phone sales.

- **Chairs:** Comparing chair sales across the regions of the USA, the east region generated the highest sales and New York was the city that Superstore should target for advertising to boost chair sales.

- **Blinders:** Comparing blinder’s sales across the regions of the USA, the west region generated the highest sales and high profit. The cities in the western region that generated high sales volume and profit were Seattle, Los Angeles, and Sacramento. These three cities generated similar sales therefore Superstore can focus on these cities to advertise the marketing campaign for blinder’s products.

- **Storages:** Comparing storage’s sales across the regions of the USA, the west region generated the highest sales and high profit. The cities in the western region that generated high sales volume and profit were Seattle, Los Angeles. Superstore can focus on these two cities for storage’s advertising campaign.

- **Copiers:**  Comparing copier’s sales across the regions of the USA, the west region generated the highest sales and high profit. Seattle was the city that generated high sales volume and profit. Thus, Superstore should focus on Seattle for the advertising campaign.

**Dashboard 3**

**Targeting customer**

After the marketing period and targeting location being identified, the part of the analysis will be indicating the customer segment for each specific product and city. The cluster being selected will be evaluated by the sales performance.

- **Phones:** For the phone’s target customers based on New York City location, Superstore should focus on customer cluster 2, this cluster generated the highest sales among all clusters over 2019 sales performance.

- **Chairs:** For the chair’s target customers based on New York City location, Superstore should focus on customer clusters 2 and 1, these clusters generated high sales over 2019 sales performance.

- **Blinders:** For the blinder’s target customers, the target customers can be investigated through three focusing cities including Los Angeles, Sacramento and Seattle. Cluster 3 generated the most sales for Los Angeles. Cluster 2 was the only customer segment for Sacramento which generated the highest sales among all clusters of the three cities. For Seattle, cluster 2 was also the cluster that generated the highest sales. Therefore, Superstore should target cluster 2 for Sacramento and Seattle and target cluster 3 for Los Angeles.

- **Storages:** For the storage’s target customers, the target customers can be investigated through two focusing cities including Los Angeles, and Seattle. Cluster 3 was the customer segment that generated the highest sales for both Los Angeles, and Seattle. Thus, Superstore can target cluster 3 for both cities to advertise storage’s marketing campaign.

- **Copiers:** Unlikely to other top-performance products, the target customer for copiers should be cluster 4. This cluster seems to be the customer that has a strong interest and behavior for purchasing the copier. Superstore should focus on this customer segment for advertising copier’s marketing campaigns.

**Conclusion**
The product that Superstore will spend its marketing budget on was selected due to its high sales and profit performance during the 12 months of 2019. The following product list is the final list of products worthwhile being promoted by the advertising campaign.

**Phones**
Sales Rank: 1
Marketing period: November and September 
Targeting location: New York City
Targeting customer: cluster 2

**Chairs**
Sales Rank: 2
Marketing period: September and December 
Targeting location: New York City
Targeting customer: cluster 2, 1

**Blinders**
Sales Rank: 3
Marketing period: from August to October
Targeting locations: Seattle, Sacramento, Los Angeles
Targeting customer: Seattle - cluster 2, Sacramento - cluster 2, Los Angeles - cluster 3

**Storages:**
Sales Rank: 4
Marketing period: from November to December
Targeting locations: Seattle, Sacramento, Los Angeles
Targeting customer: Seattle - cluster 2, Sacramento - cluster 2, Los Angeles - cluster 3

**Copiers**
Sales Rank: 5
Marketing period: March
Targeting locations: Seattle
Targeting customer: cluster 4

